[Music]
and the truth is that you being in
connection with yourself and others is
not dependent on anybody else
because being in connection with what is
doesn't require anybody else
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
good afternoon
hey Brett nice to see you again did we
just we just got to hang out now we get
to hang out again for this yeah we just
did a three-hour coaching group call and
it was really good yeah
but a group what a group yeah super fun
started out with an exploration on
tension we walked through some sort of a
process of connection and a lot of
discussion around it and it seems like
connection is really alive for our for
our conversation right now and you've
been wanting to do a podcast on
connection for a couple weeks yeah so
this seems like a perfect way to lead
right into that you know it dawned on me
I some time ago like two three weeks ago
I'm like we have something called the
connection course and we've never done a
podcast on connection that can't stand
we got to do something about that
so yeah there's a moment in the call
today where somebody had kind of a
tension between like being in the
curriculum or being in connection and
the question that came up in my mind was
well what is the difference between this
curriculum and connection if at all
it really seems to me that whatever it
is that we've ever done in any of your
courses has been aimed towards
connection uh even identifying those
ways that we think we're in connection
but is actually pulling us out of
connection like caretaking for example
and yeah and power versus empowerment
all the all these different kind of
things that get in the way of us in our
life tend to also be all of them seem to
point back to actually being in
connection yeah I haven't thought about
it that way and it's it feels very right
to me yeah I mean I think the thing
about connection is the question that
comes to mind is what is it what is
connection and
because it can mean a lot of things to a
lot of people and I think that it's it's
one of those things that's like a meta
state or a like a a state that can
Encompass all states
um what I mean to say is that
I can be in connection when I'm sad I
can be in connection when I'm crying I
can be in connection when I'm
angry I can be in connection when I am
uh having sex and I can be out of
connection when I'm doing all those
things and so though it's a felt sense
in the body it at the same time is not
it's not like a particular state
and you can be connected with somebody
when they are
angry and when they are sad and there's
somebody out there I know is like what
you can be connected with people when
they're angry yes you can I promise and
so there's just there's a way of the way
I think about connection is that it
you're being in touch with what is in
the present this is what is
I am in touch with that and that leads
to an expansion
um more energy
and it puts you in touch with something
bigger it's it's it's literally seen
Beyond feeling Beyond yourself
so that you're you're in touch with
something bigger and I think one of the
things that people get confused about a
lot and I hear this in the language it's
like oh I'm out of connection with this
person because they blah blah blah
and the truth is that
you're being in connection with yourself
and others is not dependent on anybody
else
because being in connection with what is
to be in contact with what is doesn't
require anybody else yeah an interesting
Nuance there is that you can even be in
connection with a sense of disconnection
yes with that so I've seen this happen
in groups often where everybody's
slowly kind of pretending to be in
connection because they want to be in
Connection in the group or in their team
or in the family in their relationship
and then the moment somebody says you
know I feel out of connection right now
all of a sudden a bunch of relief
happens and then it's actually like
connection somebody had to recognize and
then honor the fact that they are
feeling out of connection and being in
connection with that sense of
disconnection
Begins the you know the process of
coming back into connection yeah we saw
that this morning in our call
and we saw that exact same thing happen
yeah exactly you can even be in
connection with the state of being out
of connection which is you're right mind
bending right so so given that all of
this work comes back down to on its root
level connection what makes that so
important to you
what makes connection the thing that you
I don't know I could say specialize in
in a sense what is what does it makes
like Joe Hudson work
yeah that makes it all focused on
connection and not like you know there's
self-love in it there's self trust
there's all these different pieces but
just something about like connection
seems to be your personal Focus yeah
that's a great question yeah even like
when we do long courses the first
principle is connection connection the
name of the course is the connection
course so
it it makes sense that it's that like
that would become part of what I'm known
for uh but what the way it happened is
that I I very much like living my life
principally I like saying
Okay so
instead of saying how do I make a
particular
situation that I'm in workout and
strategize over it I say these are the
principles I live by and if I live by
them no matter what the situation is
that that's going to create the best
outcome for me
and so connection is the most effective
principle that I have found it is the it
is the principle that if that's my
bottom line if I'm a business and my
bottom line is connection my life is
the best life that I've experienced in
all the experiments of having different
bottom lines and so there's I'd say
three stories that I could tell about
this that describe how I came to that or
what made what made me see that so
clearly
the first one was K so I know you've
heard me talk about in case I met him in
a business context and I was in Venture
Capital at the time and I was so serious
I was like every I was trying to make
everything work and I was so serious
about everything
and here comes case who
constantly is laughing he's doing this
he's not investing but his job is to fix
companies and he's
doing the same serious work but he was
doing it with like so much love and he
was creating deep relationships
everywhere he went he would go into
farming communities where he was like
stuck out like a sore thumb and
and he'd be making friends with like
conservative Farmers he'd be making
friends with people in the city and some
people didn't like him no doubt but he
was just constantly creating this
connection around him and it was
incredibly effective at his work
and I just noticed that you can do the
same work and you can be happy in it and
you can feel uh capable in it
and so I started saying oh well I want
some of that happiness so I started
working on my own sense of connection
and connection with others and as that
happened I became more effective
I I was all of a sudden people were more
there was less management it was more
collaboration there was more
trust there was more
[Music]
um
understanding of one another I
understood customers better I understood
funders better I had better
relationships with all of them I would
you know all of it everything became
easier as I started focusing on on
connection
and so that was the first big hit that
got me yeah I'm I'm curious to go into
and this might be a rabbit hole right
now but what were the things that you
had been focusing on and what was your
attachment to those things that made it
that you had to see all this evidence
for Connection in order to follow it
yeah that's a oh that's like
that's that's a question
um I was interested in results I was
interested in improving my value I was
interested in
um showing people that I was worthy I
think it and and making sure that I was
there was also a huge amount of
responsibility I felt very responsible
for the money that I was
that I was caretaking and that's where
my head was I wasn't I wasn't thinking
that it was possible to enjoy myself and
then that would make me more effective
it just wasn't it was just a limiting
thought that I had had
and it was until I could see an example
of some there's very few examples of
somebody living in really deep
Connection in the business world
and then when you see it you're like oh
crap I can do that and so that was that
was it okay so so you've got this
example with case a person that you that
you met and you got to see live out a
life that was
focused on connection and also be
successful in business and it not just
be some separate thing and then what
else how else did you come to this yeah
then I ran into a study
um there's a Harvard study that uh is
the longest lasting study in the states
I thought it was in the world but it's
not apparently there's one in England
that's longer lasting but they've been
studying
uh it started off as a group of young
men and they studied them through their
lifetime and they just got all sorts of
data and now they're studying their
offsprings and wives and stuff
apparently and but they're they're
studying that every all the facets of
Life Health and every year they come in
and do questions etc etc
and
what they discovered through this is
that a happy successful life is one
that's in connection
generally
um it's and so they're measuring it as
external connection they're measuring it
as
uh social connection as quality of
relationships are you in relationships
that you
that you uh care about that are that are
invigorating which I think is a result
of connection I don't think you can be
in those relationships if you're not in
connection with yourself people aren't
in inspiring loving supportive
relationships if they're if they don't
have a certain amount of self-connection
as well
and so this reduces you know heart
disease it's like makes you live longer
this makes you happier
this it doesn't particularly say that
you're going to be wildly financially
successful but it also says that you
have a successful life
um in whatever terms you want that
success to look like and so it's the
number one indicator of like a long life
and happiness is this these qualities of
relationship this these high quality
relationships yes it reminds me of some
other uh some other studies that went
into you know populations in certain
parts of Italy in certain parts of
some parts of the U.S and they compared
a whole bunch of variables including
diet exercise health and they found
places in you know like France and Italy
where they were eating
poorly by certain standards I mean you
could say that standards are different
for different people but the factor that
they found that was most important was
that these were communities that were
living in multi-generational households
and having a lot of family around them
and Community around them and that that
was what they gleaned as the most
important factor was the connection to a
social fabric I've read the same stuff
and what what I remember some of the
studies showing that it wasn't just
because there's multi-generational
houses where they don't live long right
it's the one where there's these healthy
relationships where people feel like a
sense of belonging to the community and
they a sense of connection again see
it's it's not I'm just with the
community it's I feel in connection with
the community
yeah and there was even one in the
United States I think it was like
Pennsylvania they're like why is
everybody living so long here and they
that's the other thing that they found
um yeah so so that was another one I was
like okay so now I have some evidence
and there's a whole bunch of
psychological evidence once you start
looking for it like Aces and all sorts
of things that
point to this aces are adverse childhood
effects and then experiences experiences
thank you got me and then the final
story was there's a we had this
Healthcare company that we were invested
in and there was a woman who was a CEO
and she was an excellent leader
and she was brought into
you know grow this company but it was
really a turnaround she hadn't
particularly done a turnaround before
and usually if you're working with
somebody who's doing a turnaround and
they're successful at it one of the
things they do is they just fire half or
all the people
and you know within the first six months
and
kind of reestablish the business and
and she didn't do that what she did was
establish connection it was you know she
had like surveys that went out weekly to
people she was constantly like
connecting with the customers connecting
with the employees making sure that
people are happy and you know I'd heard
about that in things like Southwest
Airlines where they back in the day they
would talk about
you know employees first customer second
shareholders third if your employees
feel that sense of connection with the
company then the customers will be happy
if the customers are happy then the
shareholders will be happy
and it's how they you know formed in
that business and but to see it at work
and to see the turnaround that happened
and the inspiration that the people had
and how much everybody liked working
everybody liked working with her and and
she did she successfully like in two
years brought the com you know 5x the
company or something like that it was
just a tremendous thing to watch her and
it was her number she was
more prioritized on that you know as a
CEO
what you notice is you have to focus on
like two or three things and your the
the thought process is I focus on these
two or three things everything else will
work around it
and she was just maniacal on that sense
of connection
and feeling connected and being
connected herself and it was just
it was amazing to watch that turn around
so those were the three things where I
just was like oh okay so this this is a
tool that works and
it doesn't just work as far as
Effectiveness it works because it also
creates happiness it creates Joy it
creates a long life
yeah and then there's this realization
happened which is like well how much
would I sell my connection for like how
much would I sell my ability to connect
for
like if you think about that question
it's ridiculously it's like it first of
all brends bends the brain a bit but
like how much would you sell
your ability to connect with people for
or let's say sell half of it
so it's not like you'd be zero but you
just you could tell half of it how much
would you pay how much would you want to
get paid for that you mean to to give up
it to to give up that that ability to
connect to have somebody else walk away
with it as a superpower and yes yeah
exactly I want half of your ability to
connect it's gonna it's gonna add on top
of my capacity connect how much is that
worth to you how much are you gonna
charge me that is a mind-bending
question because I mean
I mean maybe assuming that I know that I
could rebuild my sense of connection my
ability to connect now then can't no no
no then hell no like no amount of money
because with half the ability to connect
and infinite money my life is still
going to be half or some you know
logarithm weird curve more out of
connection than it doesn't matter how
much money I have and you could even
replace that with other variables too
like give you the hottest wife or
something or the
you know the the most power yes like
well if I'm out of connection and I have
a lot of power then that's not good for
anybody and definitely not for myself
because the dictator is just as trapped
yeah that's right that's everybody else
yeah so that's exactly and when I when I
saw that I was like oh wow like this is
this is the most priceless thing and
what's interesting to me is I will often
ask people that I'm coaching long term
like what's the bottom line of your life
what's the bottom line what's the thing
that if you have that and it's amazing
how many people come to some version of
connection
if you really think about like okay how
do I know at the end of my life I feel
like you know if I have a lot of
something at the end of my life
what's that something and and so we all
know it inherently we all know it
inherently or you just imagine the idea
of you know heaven or like a lot of the
way a lot of religions imagine heaven or
just people would imagine well what
would it what would you like if I got
everything that I ever wanted and you
know to be like maybe some golden
streets and stuff but it'd basically
just be my family and friends
surrounding me and being in Harmony and
peace and in connection and so this
really points to what you were just
saying with a lot of the people that
you've that you've asked this question
of that they sent the responses tend to
be some intermediate need or want that
underlies all underlying all of it is
connection that's right yeah they'll
they it takes them a while to
follow the train to the station but
eventually yeah they're like oh yeah
it's some version of connection I wonder
if that'd be true for all social mammals
I wonder well yeah all social mammals
yeah yeah I wonder social being the key
yeah the key word right yeah and it's
also like if you want to work in a team
it's the number one thing as well right
so it's like a team that doesn't feel
connected to one another doesn't have
that sense of connection is not going to
perform as well
they're going to have trust issues right
you have to have the trust for the
connection people who feel deeply
connected have the trust and it's it
they're going to be most effective so
all of it all of it it just it all
seemed to come down to that and it's
this thing that you can feel anytime
anywhere it's really just a noticing a
choice that you're making yeah so if if
all this boils down to connection uh and
not even just your work but the way that
we're talking about
you know the core human need
that makes it for a really simple
Principle as you mentioned being the
first principle connection it's simple
enough you might as well repeat it three
times and say connection connection I I
actually repeat it three times because
you start with connection you stay
focused on connection you end in
connection
so it's a principle means that for me it
means you have to like can I act on it
and so
it's like oh things aren't going well I
focus on connection if things aren't
going well with my with my customers I
going well with my marriage I focus on
connection I start my interaction with
connection
I I end my interactions with connection
so that's why I have it as three times
which makes for a really good heuristic
too because in any moment you can be
like am I optimizing for being right or
am I optimizing for connection am I
trying to convince somebody or am I
trying to connect with them
am I trying to change myself or am I
trying to be in connection with myself
yes yeah that's it okay so
let's assume our audience is somewhat
sold and they're like okay okay
connection connection whatever I I say
to our I say to our audience don't be
sold do not be sold test it test it go
live your life and every time you have a
choice it's hard choose connection and
see what the hell happens don't don't
trust me do it okay great how do I do
that how do we how do we get into
connection what is what does that look
like walking around don't ask me hard
questions
okay go ahead sorry so how do you do
that uh so that's the weirdest thing is
connection
is almost the opposite of doing right it
is it's more of a sense of being I think
there's lots of ways to be in Connection
in the course and the connection course
we talk about View and those are hacks
like if I'm vulnerable it puts me into a
deeper sense of connection if I'm
impartial if I can be with what is that
gives me a deeper sense connection if I
can be with you in empathy it gives me a
deeper sense of connection or myself and
empathy Wonder oh those things all help
us get into connection
[Music]
um so there's those kinds of hacks that
you can use and there's also
just in noticing that you're always
connected there's never been a moment in
your life where you're not connected
right like
you depend on so much to survive you
every thought that you've had is
connected to some other part of the
world influencing you
um from the amount of Omega-3 so to just
there's also just a noticing that can
happen and and that's how it works
in my system it's just there's a choice
in that moment oh and then interact and
so that's my internal state of
connection my external state of
connection view works really well that
vulnerability and partiality empathy and
wonder
and also it's there's often a question
of what is it that I if I was in that
shoe that person's shoes how is it that
I would want to be interacted with and
and the question is how do I actually
most deeply want to interact with that
person and usually if you mind those two
um Wells they become the same well
you'll start to see that the thing that
I that I
how I want to be
how I would want to be treated and what
is my truth they they if you get down
far enough it'll you'll you'll get to
the same thing meaning
specifically like I want the person to
stop being an
and and they want and and if I were them
I would want me to just walk away
eventually I'm gonna get down to oh
I'm gonna say I'm hurt
and I'm gonna be vulnerable
and they want to actually see that I
care about them enough to be able to do
that so eventually you get down there
yeah which is that's an interesting
point here because often we
we project that someone else if we were
in their shoes
and we imagine what they would want if
we were them or what we'd want if we
were them we'll project what we would
actually want which might actually be
some form of disempowerment or
caretaking or something that we we've
conflated with connection or conflated
with love
and so what you're speaking to is
getting
asymptotically closer and closer and
closer to the Core
of what the actual connection is
which might not be stopping being an
it might be owning I would love
that person to own their truth with me
or I would if I was this person I would
want to hear what I have to what I have
to say but in a way that is
in connection and loving and owning my
own yeah that's right yeah there's
a triangulation piece there which is not
in the bad sense not in the
psychological triangulation
um sense of the word but the there's a
triangulation piece that is
the sufis had this great thing about the
Golden Rule and they would say
um do unto others as you would have them
do unto you I hope that person's not
suicidal because if they're suicidal
then they're going to kill everybody
that's the thought process and so
there's a triangulation between do unto
others and as you would like others to
do unto you and
um what is my deepest truth what is what
is the thing that I feel most most
deeply in my own want or my own truth so
how do you know if you're in connection
with this truth
yeah so there is a visceral feeling that
tells you when you have a sense of
connection right there's
um and this is the weird part is that
it's like I said a state
that is beyond States if I if you close
your eyes right now and you feel a
moment that you are sad and disconnected
and sad and connected
you can feel a moment when you were
working doing working at your computer
and you felt connected and working at
your computer and felt disconnected
that's how you know this reminds me of
the way that you talk about meditation
where you can be meditating and enjoy it
and being in connection with yourself or
you can do meditating and torturing
yourself
and there's a there's a difference if
you if you sit down to meditate there's
a way that it can be discomfort
discomfort can arise because there's
just discomfort in your system and now
you're connecting to it and you're
allowing it to be felt and it moves and
that's how you tell I guess if its
connection is that it
moves without you having to move it yeah
yeah it moves and and there's a feeling
of expanse and there's a feeling of like
Beyond yourself that comes along with it
and then if you try to get there if
you're trying to get connected if you're
trying to get to expanse if you're
trying to get to movement then you're
out of connection because you're not
being with what is you're trying to get
it there and this is part of like that
practice of connection there's a
practice to it and there's also a so on
one level connection is always there and
there's no practice required on another
level
there is this practice to it yeah I
think this this ties in a lot to the
work that we do with the voice in the
head and the internal conflict of when
there's a part of us that we feel in
conflict with
getting into connection with it is
actually in some sense tracing that
part's connection back to our self like
oh the part of me that's a perfectionist
and judging me how is it actually trying
to take care of me and love me
and getting into connection with that
part and seeing them connecting back to
the same Source right so if I'm thinking
about it in a group context like we we
have a group of people in this coaching
thing that we're doing and
and to me how deep real connection is
built and constantly goes deeper and
deeper and deeper is the following we
have some sort of tension we allow that
attention that tension to be there
we embrace the difficulty in that we
work through it we get back to love
we get back to a sense of safety love
and then repeat and so the more that you
go through adversity together and get
back to some way of feeling connected
and loving and supportive of one another
again the more that connection happens
in a group and you can see this in
soldiers who have been through really
really tough things and have trusted
each other deeply
you can see that sense of connection
build and it'll stay for a lifetime
similarly with teams and where they've
gone through really tough stuff and
they've made it through they feel like
this deep sense of connection it's no
different internally internally if I I
have the different parts of myself if I
embrace them if I embrace the the
friction between that from my fear the
part of myself that's scared or the part
of myself that's angry or the part of
myself that's greedy
if I can
be in that tension Embrace that
intensity and get back to connection get
back to love get back to supporting the
different parts of myself supporting I
become just a more connected being over
time yeah it seems very importantly
related to the the podcast that we did
on embracing intensity you know rather
than creating intensity because I think
it could be possible to interpret what
you're saying as oh yeah you know what
my team and I need right now is to go
through something really hard together
so you know like let's go through like
green hell like the military does and
you know that does create really
cohesive teams and also you know like I
had in my childhood a lot of times where
like
I was taught to build character and then
I carried from that a habit of putting
myself through to build character
right when in reality when one I think
one of the nuances in the the call that
we had this morning was that the tension
will arise the tension will already be
there and what I notice you doing in
this work is just allowing the tension
to be there you're not trying to drag it
up you're not poking to bring it up
unless it's unless it's like right there
at the surface already and I will say
that
being able to be in the tension without
wanting it to go away so it's just like
we were saying on the call this morning
there's
um it's like if you were to listen a
symphony with no connection it I mean
sorry with no tension you'd be like I
don't want to listen listen I don't want
to watch a television show without
tension I don't want to have a course
where there's no tension it just takes
all the life out of it
and as soon as you feel tension any of
us feels tension we want it to go away
so it's this really interesting
phenomenon that we wanted on the long
run but we don't want it on the short
term and so one of the Great Tricks of
connection is to be able to be with
tension in a connected way how do I how
do I have that tension and still feel
deeply connected with myself yeah so
what makes it that we don't focus on
connection as if it's this effective and
it's this baked into our mammalian
nervous system what makes it that we
lose the plot so frequently and end up
going in some direction orthogonal to
connection we get the idea that our
happiness is in the future I think
mostly based out of fear or our demises
in the future but we get focused on the
future
potentially the past
um but mostly I think it's the future
we're out there thinking okay I can get
happiness if I do X Y and Z or I can get
connected if I do X Y and Z if I'm
famous then everybody will love me if I
have money then I will feel safe
um and so we're constantly sacrificing
the connection of the moment for the
idea that we're going to have something
in the future rather than thinking oh if
I'm connected in the present people are
going to want to be around me want to
support me and everything I'm going to
want to achieve is going to happen
easier my accomplishments are going to
happen easier because I have a community
of support
and so
we're constantly giving up out of fear
sometimes and you can be connected with
your fear which changes the way fear is
but it through that kind of disconnected
fear through that o in the future then
we lose track of connection it's it
can't be that simple yeah that's
interesting so something that I pulled
from that is like if you
if you're holding your connection with
yourself hostage or making it
conditional over something happening in
the future then you can never actually
have it that's right yeah carrot on a
stick you can't be connected with
yourself if it's dependent on something
that is not actually present with you
right now already Yes uh interesting
right and and you see people do this all
the time I'll I can I'll be there when I
quit smoking I'll be there when I have
the money I'll be there when so and so
loves me I'll be there when
yeah you're there right now yeah even if
it means
being there with the fear of
your future happening or not happening
or yes you're past following you or all
the all the things yeah you see it all
the time like
especially in my line of work there's
you know people get everything that they
wanted and they're still miserable
you see it all the time they had this
idea of what was going to get them the
thing they did 20 years of schooling and
then another 20 years of
of career to have everything the
checklist the the husband the money the
power the notoriety the
everything in there like
miserable yeah ironically I've I've
found myself sometimes to be more
miserable the more of what I think I
want that I have and then less miserable
more engaged and more connected when I
have
less of what I want and I'm just living
moment to moment because that's all
that's available to me you know like the
times that I was like traveling through
Africa and like no money and didn't know
where my next you know whatever was
going to come from
were actually some of the like golden
moments of my life yes that's right yeah
there was a great billboard in La that
spoke to this at some point they they
were basically saying why is it that our
best memories are when we're when we're
young and without money it was a bank it
was a bank one and and speaking to that
same thing it's like there's a
there's a way in which when we start
one of the ways to get out of out of
connection like if you think about this
time of year 20 there's a steep sense of
connection with with life with oh my
gosh like food and the people around you
and and then if you're in some sort of
thing where you're constantly looking at
the future it's very hard to feel that
sense of connection you can do it you
can look in the future and feel that
sense of connection
but it takes some doing yeah so another
another thing that's interesting here is
that the way that we've been talking
about connection is that it's all
internal it's something that is within
your own agency your own internal locus
of control and I think that a lot of
times when people think about connection
that's sort of a two-way street takes
two to tango and some might imagine that
if someone wants to break connection
with you you can't stop that and then
the connection is lost and then that
impacts you and you're like no I lost
this connection so I can't be as happy
unless in the future I get it back and
then the conditional thing begins again
yes okay there's two parts to that the
first one is that there's the locus of
control being yourself that's true to a
point and then very not true to a point
and the
that not true to the point is where it's
not where it's dependent on somebody
else but you can see that it's a gift
like there's a deeper level of
connection that occurs when
their surrender in you
and so to think that you're in the the
locus of control often uh makes it so
that so that you forget that you're here
by the grace of God is a way to say it
but that that you're here by the grace
of
the laws of physics and the universe and
nature and existence yeah and that can
even separate you from your reality
backhand as well that's true and putting
yourself in the center of control can
separate you from your reality as well
so what's interesting is all
and almost anything those thoughts and
almost anything can both put you out of
connection and put you into connection
depending on how you approach it
and the thing that you're saying is that
that's also very true is that you can't
break connection with me I have to agree
to it I have to agree to it you can say
it just happened to me recently um
had somebody who I had been client who
just did something that hurt and and and
we found out intentionally you know when
we talked about it you know she did it
to hurt me because whatever the love was
scary the thing that was happening was
scary for her and the like it reminded
her too much of like love that she felt
where she got abused and so it was like
she was having this trauma response and
so she did this thing and I was like I
know you know that you're hurting me I
know you're I know you know that and I'm
just here to tell you at some point I
express a Manger I expressed sadness I
express chart and at some point I said
I'm not going to let you stop me from
feeling connected and love for you I'm
not going to do that because that hurts
me
so you can you're doing all this stuff
that's fine and I'm not gonna I'm not
gonna stop loving you I'm gonna stop
doing business with you because that I'm
not I'm not gonna get hurt I'm not going
to allow that damage to be done again
but I'm not going to stop loving you and
you know that was a huge event for her
now sometimes people are gone by the
time you can't you can't say that to
them they've just decided we're out of
here yeah I could imagine even in like
romantic context that that might even
sound a little stalkery like okay yeah
you can leave me but you can't stop me
from loving you I'll be loving you from
over here just you know every time you
think about me you remember that I'm
over here loving you if you say it like
that if you say it like that that is
kind of creepy yeah but I mean that's
that's also the way some people might
take this you know if that if that's the
energy that's true yeah and yes they
might they're gonna take your
your connection in lots of different
ways there's going to be lots of
projection onto it some some people will
think it's needy I'm sure and some
people will think it's
um stalkery or whatever but the but
that's their reaction to to being
you know their own presence and their
own love
it's their own sense of connection
because what you'll notice is that any
person has kind of the capacity to get
to a certain level of connection and
then that's kind of there okay now it's
getting more intense now I'm gonna I'm
gonna I'm gonna lift up I'm gonna go get
into the phone I'm gonna go watch
television I'm gonna go do heroin
whatever it is there's some kind of some
level of it that is within their normal
range and then they're going to react to
it
um and that's why it can't depend on
anybody else it's really about and it
can be all very silent for this
particular case
it was really important for me to say it
because of the relationship that we had
but there's other cases
I'm in a grocery store I see somebody I
feel like a deep sense of connection I
don't have to say anything about it you
know I often walk around the world
feeling like a tremendous amount of love
for people I don't know and I'm not like
walking around going I love you I love
you I love you it's not happening yeah
it's like meta meditation nobody nobody
in the world Kim Jong-un can't stop you
from doing a meta meditation in which
you are sending love to all beings and
that's your own internal experience and
that is beneficial for you and has an
impact on all those that you have
contact with in some sense due to the
impact on your Consciousness and nobody
can stop you from doing it and you're
not crossing any boundaries right I mean
it's a it's kind of that's a part of all
religion I mean that's a very
Christian ideal too right it's like
loving Love Thy Neighbor there is a
freedom to it like we somehow think that
freedom comes from
uh having a set of ideas that were right
that that are right and that that we
have that we never have to leave and
what I've noticed is the truth to
Freedom is far more about being able to
feel and love everything feel and be
connected to everything which would
include
falling out of connection in the most
ungraceful ways so yes let's say let's
say somebody leaves me
I drop out of connection with them I
leave in a rage I go do the heroine I
get a bunch of self-criticism and yes
the spiral how do you
I mean how do you get back into
connection from there
and I know I'm walking into a trap with
that question with you
yeah I don't so this is kind of where
Grace and surrender come into play
meaning that
um on some level it's not until you
think about that I want to be back in
connection not until
connection presents itself that you
remember that you're even able to so if
you're completely non-present there's no
way but as soon as you think oh I could
be present again then presence has
already occurred then then connection
has already occurred as soon as you
think oh I want to be in connection so
there's a way in which
connection is always there and it's
always available and If you start trying
to get it you push it away and and so
that question I always answer it with
the
how do you drop a hot frying pan version
some version of how do you drop a hot
frying pan it's
it's there are things that you can do
you can meditate you can get in your
body you can exercise you can
eat healthy foods you can't and those
all will help you know they'll all point
to it for you you can do meta meditation
you can pray you can do community acts
of service there are a thousand things
you can do and on some level you also
need to see that it's always there and
always available
because the effort takes you away from
it so then once you're once you're back
in it once you recognize that it is
something that is there all the time
then what do you do then the best thing
is gratitude is just to be thankful for
it
that's the easiest thing is to be even
right now if you feel into this moment
you can feel your connection
it's always there and you can
be grateful for it
easy peasy lemon squeezy
yeah that was my as a kindergarten
teacher for my daughters used to always
say easy peasy lemon squeezy this kind
of reminds me of a question that I've
heard posed that it was like a scientist
some University students to just
throughout the day ask themselves am I
conscious
and then they did some studies on them
after they had that practice it was just
like asking asking yourself a question
increased the sense of
feeling conscious in the moment or being
aware
and less on autopilot and it sounds very
similar here where it's just oh am I
noticing that connection is a thing
and when you once you've noticed it
rather than trying to judge it and try
to figure out how you can improve it or
what's wrong with it or what's missing
just noticing oh
there's my desire for connection and
then feel gratitude for it and let that
deepen it
and then see what happens from there
yeah even the desire for connection is a
form of connection
beautifully said yeah beautiful awesome
Brett what what a pleasure what a
pleasure again for both both of our
times together today yeah I love this
one yeah me too all right all right talk
to you soon see ya thanks for listening
to the art of accomplishment if you
enjoyed what you heard today please
subscribe and rate US on your podcast
app we'd love your feedback so feel free
to send us questions or comments you can
reach out to us join our newsletter or
check out our courses at Art of
accomplishment.com
[Music]
foreign